ANNOUNCER:
Previously on Debris...
My dad was the first to be told
the truth about what they found.
-MADDOX: George Jones,
he's alive.
-BRYAN: That's impossible.
We're just gonna
have to sit on this
for a little while, okay?
BRYAN:
There are things that I know
that you will not
find very palatable.
I need you to trust me.
FERRIS: It's your father.
He may still be alive.
Bryan knows, too.
FINOLA: Why did we even
bother with this alliance?
BRILL: Ferris. She knows more
than she's telling you.
-FINOLA: I want to catch
these guys, Bryan.
-BRYAN: We will.
JULIA: I know
what it takes from you
to control the fate
of the world.
I accept this,
I accept all of this.
Let's just look out
for each other, yeah?
BRYAN: It's been a long time
since somebody's looked at me
like a human being.
When I first met you,
I doubted you could
do this job.
I shouldn't have.
(electricity buzzing)
(exhales)
(car door opens)
GIRL:
What do we do now?
We have to try again.
We need more people.
**
** (theme)
(Bryan sighs)
You know,
when they designed it,
I really don't think
NASA engineers
intended that to be your
personal toaster oven, Bryan.
Have you ever heard
of the Dustbuster?
UV sunglasses?
Memory foam mattresses?
All developed by NASA,
so I'm just ahead of
the curve, so to speak.
Wow, you're just like
a human crystal ball.
It's a curse.
Is everything all right?
Yeah.
When we were in New York,
my sister sent me
an old... family video
of us on the Isle of Wight
when we were kids.
It just made me
think about my dad.
He was in Greece
the summer before he died,
and he sent me an email
to say that he found
the perfect present
he was gonna buy himself
for his birthday,
for me to gift him.
Is that something
that he would do a lot?
Yeah. And then he would always
act surprised when he opened it.
What was the present?
I don't know.
I never got the chance
to find out.
That's what
I was thinking about.
You sure you don't want
in on one of these?
Mm-mm, I'm quite sure.
Okay.
Your loss.
Did you do what I asked?
Yes. I still don't know
why you wanted me to tell him
my father was in Greece
before he died.
And how did Bryan respond?
He just listened
to the story.
What's going on?
You trust me, don't you?
I do.
Now, if he brings it up again,
mention Cyprus,
that you think
he was there, too.
Who was that agent
you sent to deliver me
the memory stick with
the China files in New York?
That's Agent Brill. Why?
Oh, I've just never
met him before.
He's dependable.
Don't forget about Cyprus.
I'll be in touch.
Copy that.
**
-(car door closes)
-FINOLA: What do we got?
Local PD was alerted by
a woman walking her dog.
She said she saw
four or five teenagers
near the house
a few days ago.
They were in
a banged-up sedan.
Then this morning
her dog led her inside
to the bodies.
How many bodies
are we talking about?
Three. We're still searching
the woods for the Debris.
They're clicking at
190 on the Laghari.
FINOLA: Okay. Thanks, Tom.
Dr. Masakela.
DR. MASAKELA: Over here.
How you doing?
FINOLA: All right.
This is oddly peaceful.
They all died here
in the house.
-FINOLA: When?
-It was recent.
It's like the life was
literally sucked out of them.
Whatever happened,
the Debris seems
to have left each one with
a faint electrostatic field.
Where is the energy
coming from?
Low relative humidity
is creating
an electrostatic
buildup in this area.
And the bodies
are containing it.
Enough to charge
a cell phone.
DR. MASAKELA: Convenient
in this remote location.
BRYAN: Bill Jarvah.
-What is that?
-Medical ID.
Bill Jarvah
was reported missing
by local PD
three days ago.
Who were the other two?
Another man
was reported missing,
also in his eighties, same day.
And then the day before that,
a woman disappeared from
a assisted living facility.
I think we just found them.
Why are they older people,
and what happened to them?
At their age, they could barely
make it through the forest.
Someone brought them here.
The teenagers,
the ones the dog walker saw.
BRYAN: Dr. Masakela,
you said it was like
their life was
sucked out of them.
FINOLA: If someone
used Debris to do this,
what could they be
getting from them?
Not much.
Once I get them back
to the lab at Langley,
I'll know more.
Great.
(door buzzes)
Oh, room service.
It's about bloody time.
I've been here for hours.
I'll have a Moo Goo Gai Pan.
And how about some of those...
those fortune cookies?
Let's have
some of those, too.
Anson Ash.
Ex-SAS, Special
Reconnaissance Regiment.
Infiltrated the IRA
in Northern Ireland.
It says here you abandoned
your military duty.
Tell me about Influx.
Who's funding you?
We know it's not
the Russians.
Or the Chinese.
What do you want?
Definitely not what
you lot want.
You want
geopolitical dominance.
You want to rule the world.
You don't get
to control this Debris.
This technology is meant
to free the world,
not entrap it.
I find it interesting
that you don't understand
that we are suddenly
in the presence
of a power so vast,
with both the possibility
of good and evil,
and you don't know
which side you're on.
But you do.
You're on the side of good.
You're just a guy
who's trying to make
the world a better place
by opening up wormholes
in Manhattan, yeah?
You think it should
all just be out there,
available to anybody
who comes across it?
Is that right?
I am just a guy...
who wants some
Moo Goo Gai Pan.
We know you switched out
George's dead body
in the morgue.
Did you reanimate him
with Debris?
I think we all know
the rules here.
There are no rules.
Not since the arrival.
Are you torturing George Jones
to learn our secrets?
That's a good idea,
you should get some sleep.
Next time you see me,
you're going to need
all your energy.
Anson has had
four incoming calls.
Proprietary software
scrambled the ID,
but whoever they are,
they keep calling back.
MADDOX: He's not talking,
so this is all we got.
All right, just stay on it.
I need to find out where
those calls are coming from.
You gotta crack that phone.
Chalk?
Sometimes hikers mark trees
so they don't get lost.
There's another one.
I'm gonna get some more agents
to search the area, okay?
(phone buzzes)
Hey, George Jones
was in Romania
for a series of conferences
just before his death.
I need you to find out
if he was anywhere near
the Mediterranean
-when he was there.
-Okay.
Malta, Cyprus...
It's important that I know.
(sighs)
Finola just told me
a story on the plane
about her father
being in Greece a month
before his death.
He emailed her.
I'm trying to figure out
if Influx had some sort of
long-term plan
to capture George,
and I want to know if they
were tracking him even then.
So I may need some more
information from Finola.
How long was he there,
exact dates,
etcetera, etcetera.
I need anything you can get.
Copy?
Okay.
Hey. They've confirmed
through dental records
that the corpses they found
were the missing elderly,
but we just got a report
that another elderly man
named Caspian Cole, 80s,
just went missing
in a town east of there
called McMinnville,
Tennessee.
Whoever's doing this
is there now.
**
Stop! Don't go any further.
BOY: 237.
Told you.
This is good.
I'm okay, I'm okay.
We're back on track.
Soon we'll be free.
We just gotta find
a few more.
We have to keep going.
TARKOLOV:
Not many Americans...
know who Yuri Gagarin was.
That's because
it doesn't matter
if you're the first
person in space if
you don't land on the moon.
And that's what we did.
So, you know,
of course everybody knows
who Neil Armstrong is.
History is kindest
to the victors.
Those above me want
history to be kind
to Russia now.
They're willing
to make the trade
for the piece you want.
No reason both countries
can't take their place
in the history books this time.
When can I see it?
Not long now.
I'll pick you up
at 8:00 tonight.
Local PD found
surveillance footage
of Caspian Cole
being abducted
four blocks from the house.
According to the time stamp,
they were talking
for about twenty minutes.
There's a second man
reported missing now
two hours after.
Jose Manza,
ninety years old.
Last seen ten blocks
from the same place.
(phone buzzes)
-Tom.
-Yeah,
we just located a car
matching the description
from the crime scene
in Ennville.
It's parked by the woods
north east of Collins Road.
No plates.
-Ping me your location.
-You got it.
Definitely traces of Debris.
It was here.
Not too long ago.
I'm picking up
a steady 60.
These are some of
the victims' clothes.
(phone rings)
This is Bryan.
It's Kearn. Bad time?
I got a minute.
What's up?
We're looking
for her personal emails
from when George
was in Greece.
What are you talking about?
Agent Jones.
We're in her apartment.
We got nothing
from her journals,
so we're going
through everything.
-You're in her apartment.
-Yeah,
Maddox said
you were up to speed.
He said you might have
had access to her password.
He made it pretty clear
that he needs this soon.
Are you there?
I don't have
that information right now.
You're on your own.
I gotta go.
What do you think?
Let's run the VIN.
It's a bit cold out here.
What's your name?
Subash.
Want me
to sit with you, Subash?
So, why are you all alone?
You don't have any family?
My sons...
live in a different city.
So they're just
living their lives
and forgetting you exist, huh?
You know, sometimes I...
I feel...
they are just
waiting for me to die.
I can help you with that.
(phone buzzes)
(sighs)
Nothing.
Still quiet.
(sighs)
That story, the one
you shared on the plane.
Yeah?
It stuck with me.
That bit about George
buying presents for himself.
Nobody talked about that side
of your father at Orbital,
just that he was
this hyper-focused...
gifted, out-there genius.
Hmm.
Well, yeah.
He was that, too.
Out there. Definitely.
You should have been there
when he did his papers
on children's nightmares.
What do you mean?
He was obsessed with
neurological computing,
and so he thought nightmares
might be the brain's way
of solving
differential equations.
So, yeah,
lots of therapy on that one.
I don't know. It's like,
everything I've heard,
he didn't sound like
the type that would just
jet off to Greece.
And Cyprus.
He really loved it there, too.
Why are you asking me
about my father, Bryan?
Because your father is alive.
I know.
And I know that you
and Maddox knew.
Why did you tell me?
I just told you.
Isn't that enough?
When did Maddox find out?
Two weeks ago.
And what do you
know about it?
Why was he taken?
I only saw footage of him
coming into JFK
from out of the country
with Anson Ash and another
Influx operative.
But the last I heard,
Maddox was trying to rule out
if it was a clone or not.
Well, it's not a clone.
It's him.
How do you know that?
I just do.
Did he die or not?
You said you saw his body.
I did.
Maddox wanted me to get
the information off you
about his trip to Greece
to see if Influx was
tracking him before his death.
That's all I know.
I need to know
if I can trust you
with what I've told you.
(gasping)
Have some water.
Here.
-Better?
-(sighs)
(siren in distance)
Go to the car.
Check that out.
Come on.
KURT: It's okay.
Don't be afraid.
It happens so fast,
and it doesn't hurt at all.
Just hold on to it,
no matter what.
(sighs)
Okay.
(Debris trilling)
Hey, stop!
We're federal agents!
(Debris trilling)
(grunting)
You have to let me go!
-Where is it?
-I don't have it! He does!
Where is Caspian Cole?
-Jose Manza?
-(grunting, struggling)
Jose Manza and Caspian Cole!
Where are they?
What are you doing to them?
I am Caspian Cole.
(Debris trilling)
It's-- It's a miracle.
Like I said,
you have to stay near us.
You're with us now.
Kurt! Kurt!
Kurt, Kurt, Kurt!
Let's go.
You have to stay with us!
You have to!
We gotta go!
Come on, let's go!
(gasping)
(panting)
We have to go.
We can't leave them.
We gotta keep running.
We need to get
the others back.
I don't know
who these people are,
but they know
what we're doing.
They will die
if we run further.
I can't let that
happen again.
After it happens,
we can't get too far from it.
But he said he knew
how to stop that.
What do you mean?
You have to let us go.
We will die.
He won't stay.
I can feel that
it's close to happening.
I can feel it.
We're on the outer reaches
of being too far from it.
Where did it come from?
He said that
he prayed for it.
Don't you believe it?
Look at what he's done.
I'm 85 years old.
It's a miracle.
I wished that I would die...
so many times.
That I would just disappear.
Do you know what
kind of hell that is?
And then he found me,
and he told me
he could do this.
What will happen to me now?
I don't want anything
to happen to you.
Where's Bryan?
We found another one of these
in the woods where
Caspian Cole was running.
Kurt wants to talk.
BRYAN: Kurt?
Who are you?
We're here to help.
We've got Caspian and Subash.
Where's Jose?
Jose Manza is dead.
And all this has to stop
before anyone else dies.
Jose is dead
because of you.
You killed him.
You did, you forced him
to run too far away.
Kurt, what
you're doing is wrong.
No, actually I'm not
doing anything wrong.
I'm helping people who deserve
a chance at a second life.
People who have been
left all alone.
Look, I know
that you know what it does,
or you wouldn't be here
looking for it.
I know you know.
I know.
So, then help them
by helping me.
Tell me the math.
The math?
The key to it is numbers.
The more people
that it makes young,
the farther away from it
we can be.
If I could
get the math right...
If I can get enough people,
if I can just figure it out,
then none of us
have to be near it anymore.
All of us.
You know that's not working.
We found the bodies
in the house.
If you don't stop,
more innocent people
are going to die.
No, you're gonna
let my friends go.
You're gonna
pack up your trucks
and you're gonna leave
or else I'm gonna--
I'm gonna disappear,
and Caspian and Subash's blood
will be on your hands too.
BRYAN:
So, what've you got for me?
From what I can tell,
the Debris uses
an epigenetic program
to control, and reverse,
the aging process.
It commandeers DNA
methylation pathways,
thereby restoring youth.
But when the Debris is absent,
everything snaps back
with a vengeance.
It's like
a biological boomerang.
Right, but in your voicemail,
you said you could undo it?
Yes, I believe that we can
moderate the boomerang effect.
I just need you to keep them
alive and get me the Debris.
The subjects could be
returned to where they were
before all this happened,
old but alive.
Thanks.
Bryan, you got a minute?
Just came for you.
Why so early?
I don't know.
Maybe something came back
in your blood work.
(grunts)
(knock on door)
Hey.
We just got word back
on the Chrysler.
It's Kurt's car.
His name is Kurt Cox.
He was an engineer
from Knoxville.
The girl he's with
is Clara Cox.
They're husband and wife.
They've been married for
over fifty years.
He took her from
a care facility
where she was
suffering from
end stage dementia.
So, he got his wife back.
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
I'm gonna take care of this.
BRYAN:
Kurt, are you there?
You're prepared to leave?
I'm afraid
I can't do that, man.
-KURT: No, No.
-TOM: We're getting closer.
I will leave,
I will disappear,
and you will
never see me again.
They will be dead
because of you.
There is a chance that
we can undo you've done,
but you gotta trust me.
Going back to what we were
is not an option.
I know that you took
Clara from a facility.
I understand her condition,
I understand that you
think this is a miracle.
You have no idea what
you're dealing with.
I won't send her back
to that hell.
TOM: Not far now.
I've already lost Clara once.
I believe that
I found this for a reason.
Where did you
find it, Kurt?
I was by some cliffs
near my house.
It seemed to beckon me.
And when I picked it up
and it transformed me, I knew.
I knew that this was
how I get her back.
Who are you
to take this from us?
This is saving my wife.
This is saving
our lives together.
Everybody you bring
in your circle,
you're putting
their lives in danger.
It's not right.
We should be born old
and live our lives backwards,
because just when you start
to appreciate your life,
it is gone.
You don't see that.
You're too young.
One day,
you're gonna understand.
We should have more time.
Everyone should have
more time.
Find peace in the fact
that you'll be able
to offer her comfort
in the remaining time
she has left.
TOM: We're real close.
They're here somewhere.
FINOLA: He's smart.
He relayed the walkies.
We have to stop, Kurt.
I can't.
I can't live without you.
This gift was given to us.
We already had our gift.
A life with each other.
We are like starlight.
We were here...
we've burned bright...
even though that star
might not be here anymore.
I'm afraid that--
I'm afraid that
if you go back,
you're gonna die
in that state.
That you're not gonna
remember to wait for me.
**
(phone vibrates)
TARKOLOV:
She has it with her.
I wanted to use Irina.
To make sure
it's someone you know.
(knock on door)
Where's the rest of it?
It's enough
to show we have it.
This is what
I was told to bring.
MADDOX:
Let's see it.
MADDOX: Is it charged?
Mm-hmm.
Turn it on.
Let's send a team here,
and a team here.
We'll close in on them.
He won't be able
to get out of range.
KURT: Hello?
-Kurt?
-We're coming in.
Tell Caspian and Subash
not to worry.
Where are you?
A small clearing,
past the incline.
We'll be there, waiting.
There.
We have a hazmat
team right here.
**
(instrument warbling)
Laghari is reading 210.
They should be right here.
-Bryan.
-Yeah, I'm here.
The Debris is here,
but they aren't.
FINOLA: They know
what will happen to them.
Kurt?
Kurt, come back.
We can help you.
* I *
Kurt?
* Thought I could
touch the stars *
* I lie awake at night *
* I wonder where you are *
* My face explodes *
* Teardrops into tears, yeah *
* And every second
I'm not with you *
* Well, it seems like years *
* Seems like years *
* And I've told you *
* Well, I warned you *
* That I loved you *
* Yeah *
**
* I won't die *
* But I won't feel the same *
* I spend up all of my time *
* Hoping to see you again *
* My face explodes *
* Teardrops into tears, yeah *
* And every second
I'm not with you *
* Well, it seems like years *
* Seems like years *
* Yeah, I warned you *
* That I'd kill you *
* 'Cause I loved you *
* Yeah *
Do you have it?
Yes.
We're going to take you
and Caspian to a facility
where there are people
who can help you.
Do you understand
what I'm telling you?
I grow old again?
Yes.
You can't take it away.
We just don't have
a choice, Subash.
You can't take away
what it gave me.
The miracle of life.
I just needed
to feel it again.
And after this,
I'm going to fight
for every last day.
I happen to know
you have stronger Debris
that can access
communication frequencies.
Why would you want this one?
Because it works.
Is that the only reason?
Because this trade,
this method,
Tarkolov,
it's unusual for you.
I'm good.
I hope you know
what you're doing.
You always worry too much.
(door closes)
You can.
Trust me.
I know it wasn't easy going
against your orders.
I appreciate that you did that.
Ferris told me to tell you
that my father was in Greece,
and I have no idea why.
It's like she's leaving
just enough bread crumbs
for Maddox to
figure something out.
-Do you know what that is?
-No.
But it was important
enough for her to do it.
She's using me to figure
something out about my father.
I have a bad feeling about it.
I can't trust Ferris.
And you can't trust Maddox.
FINOLA: MI6 suspects
that he's been working
against the coalition,
most likely the Chinese.
You're wrong.
I'm giving you
the information that I have...
You don't know what
you're saying.
This man... saved my life.
The only thing
that I know for sure
is that something
is going on that both of us
don't even understand.
We need to trust each other.
That is the only way we're
going to find our answers.
Is there anything
that I need to know?
Is there anything--
They're surveilling
your apartment.
(elevator dings)
(phone rings)
-(elevator dings)
-What's up?
We've traced the calls
that came in
on Anson Ash's phone.
It's from a cell phone
in Maine.
Stay on it.
I want a name.
(elevator dings)
MAN: Orbital investigating.
(beep)
Debris field 16, 27.
21.
(beep)
56.
170.
(beep)